# Fake API Generator

This is a command-line tool for generating fake API responses based on a JSON configuration file. The tool is written in Go and uses the gofakeit library to generate random data.

## Installation

To install the fakeapi command-line tool, you must have Go installed on your system. You can download and install Go from the official Go website.

Once you have Go installed, you can install the fakeapi tool by running the following command:

`go install github.com/yourusername/fakeapi/cmd/fake`
Replace yourusername with your GitHub username or the name of your fork of this project.

## Build
Use commands:

```
make        # builds the binary (default command)
make build  # builds the binary
make clean  # removes the binary
make run    # runs the program
```

## Usage

To generate fake API responses, you must create a configuration file in JSON format that defines the endpoints and fields for each endpoint. We recommended use `.json` type for files. Here's an example configuration file `config.json`:

```
{
  "cache": 5,
  "endpoints": [
    {
      "url": "/users",
      "fields": {
        "id": "uuid",
        "name": "name",
        "email": "email"
      },
      "response": "list"
    },
    {
      "url": "/products",
      "fields": {
        "id": "uuid",
        "name": "word",
        "price": "price"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
This configuration file defines two endpoints: /users and /products. The /users endpoint returns a list of users with pagination (by default page = 1 and per_page = 10), while the /products endpoint returns a single product. Cache is not required, but if existed it is count of request for caching.

List of types:
<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between;">
  <div>
    <li>uuid</li>
    <li>city</li>
    <li>state</li>
    <li>country</li>
    <li>latitude</li>
    <li>longitude</li>
    <li>name</li>
    <li>name_prefix</li>
    <li>name_suffix</li>
  </div>
  <div>
    <li>first_name</li>
    <li>last_name</li>
    <li>gender</li>
    <li>ssn</li>
    <li>hobby</li>
    <li>email</li>
    <li>phone</li>
    <li>username</li>
    <li>password</li>
    <li>paragraph</li>
    <li>sentence</li>
    <li>phrase</li>
    <li>quote</li>
  </div>
  <div>
    <li>word</li>
    <li>date</li>
    <li>second</li>
    <li>minute</li>
    <li>hour</li>
    <li>month</li>
    <li>day</li>
    <li>year</li>
    <li>url</li>
    <li>domain</li>
    <li>int</li>
    <li>float</li>
  </div>
</div>

To generate fake API responses using this configuration file, you can run the fake command:

`fake -c path/to/config.json`
Replace path/to/config.json with the path to your configuration file.

By default, the fake command starts a web server on port 8000 that responds to requests for the endpoints defined in your configuration file. You can specify a different port by adding the --p flag followed by the desired port number:

`fake -c path/to/config.json -p 8080`

## Customization

You can customize the types of fake data generated by editing the handler/handler.go file. The MakeHandler function generates fake data based on the fields and response type defined in the configuration file.

You can also add new types of fake data by modifying the switch statement in the MakeHandler function. The gofakeit library provides many built-in functions for generating fake data, and you can use these functions to generate custom data types.

## Contributing

If you find a bug or would like to suggest a new feature, you can create an issue on the GitHub repository for this project. If you'd like to contribute code, you can fork the repository and submit a pull request with your changes.

For create new release use git tags. Create new tag `git tag vX.Y.Z` and push it `git push origin vX.Y.Z`.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more information.
